2024 funding is being sought particularly in the areas of Internet of Things (IoT) and low-power, low-cost
technologies toward developing portable, remote, or wearable devices. A wide spectrum of technologies such as
single board computers (SBCs) like the Raspberry Pi and the Nvidia Jetson Nano and low-power microcontrollers
such as ESP32 and the Raspberry Pi Pico along with a variety of sensors and actuators are integrated into these
devices. The SBC-sensor/actuator units programmed to take on the role of either an edge-server or edge-node
customized to the application being conceived.

The objective of this highly cross-disciplinary research program is to develop technologies that implement an internet-of-things (IoT) framework with robust edge compute methodologies. The
edge compute will not only involve
standard algorithms for data analytics but
also extend to deep learning methods
with the potential of distributing the
compute to connected devices within a
spatio-temporal landscape with multiple
sensors and actuators located in
proximity to the data source. The
research program builds on this idea of
edge compute particularly on low-cost
and low-powered devices wherein, the
edge-server-node configurations will
optimize the use of on-board computing
resources to efficiently analyze data and
transfer them to and from the end-user. A
variety of communication protocols such
as Zigbee, Lorawan, WiFi, Bluetooth,
MQTT etc will be implemented on these
customized laboratory-scale devices.
The most recent example of such as a
system was developed by undergraduate
students in the Department of Computer
Science, GWU under the supervision of
Prof. Kartik Bulusu (See Prior Faculty
Experience with Supervision of
Undergraduate Students for details in the students and their affiliations). The device shown in Figure 1 (A-C) is a lowcost,
wireless data acquisitions system designed for the following applications: (i) Pump and sensor control in a
temperature and humidity-controlled incubator for cell culture studies and (ii) Remote data acquisition and system
diagnostics in refrigeration and air conditioning units. For cell-culture applications in incubators, this system
integrated a dosing pump (Model: EZO-PMP, Atlas Scientific) capable of delivering very small dosages (in the micro-